>> Brian Holt: I want you to try and
type into this.
>> Brian Holt: Congratulations,
you broke the DOM.
This is actually kinda difficult to do,
right?
[LAUGH] And this is one of people's
frustrations when they first
learn to write React is like,
this was so simple to do before.
Why did we make something simple hard?
Right, it's a valid thing to say.
But I want you to think
about how this works.
Whenever I type something in here, so
if I hit a keystroke right now,
what happens is React captures that event.
Then what happens is that kicks off a
re-render cycle inside of its components.
So the first thing that
happens is it re-renders app.
And then it gets done a SearchParams and
it hops down into search params.
Here, it says const location
equals Seattle, Washington.
And it re-renders, and what is
the value of this input right here?
Seattle, right?
Nothing changes that, right?
So when it re-renders again, it's still
Seattle's because nothing changed it.
So that's why, even when I type in there,
it's not changing.
So in other words,
two way data binding is not free in React,
which can be a point of frustration.
I used to be an Angular developer.
I wrote a lot of Angular
when I worked at Reddit.
So this was frustrating for me because
this used to be free to me, right?
If, in Angular, just did the NG bind or
something like that and
it was just bound together and
it worked and magical.
That's no longer the case and
I'm gonna argue for that.
It's actually a benefit
because it forces me to
think through everything that's happening.
And I'm no longer limited by what
the framework is gonna do for me.
I have to do it,
which I think is a benefit because later,
when I come back to it, I can read
everything that's happening, right?
I don't have to know Angular super well or
I don't have to know React super well to
know what's happening because I can
see all the code that's governed.
It's very explicit.
This is actually kind of just
a general trend for React.
It's verbose, right?
You write more code.
And that can be a point of frustration.
But I argue that this is actually
one of the biggest benefits of React
because it's very understandable, right?
It forces you to think through everything.
Which means that when you come back to
this a month later, you can re-read all
the code that you wrote and
understand what's happened, okay?
So we want to be able to change this
now from Seattle, WA to something else.
So how are we going to do that?
Well, let's take a look at that.
>> Brian Holt: Up here,
where it says import React, for
me, I'm gonna put comma, .
Then I'm going to import that from React.
>> Brian Holt: So instead of having
this location here, I'm gonna say const,
square bracket, location,
comma, setLocation.
= useState, and then the default state,
which is gonna be Seattle, WA,
>> Brian Holt: Okay?
Now, I have this location in this input.
The thing you might notice,
if you look at the console here, if I look
at the console, it's probably gonna say,
you provided a value prop to a form
without a non-change handler.
That's why.
We're going to give this
a on change handler.
So I'm gonna say on change = curly braces.
I'm going to give it just a tiny function
to run whenever an event happens.
So I'm gonna say,
whenever there is an event,
setLocation to be e.target value.
[BLANK AUDIO] So this is a little,
little tiny function, right?
And all it does it it takes an event,
so you can actually put event there,
if that makes you feel better about it.
I just have a habit from
forever that I call events e.
>> Brian Holt: You can decide
if that's useful to you or not.
>> Brian Holt: And if you've ever
written an event handler for jQuery or
just normal JavaScript,
that should look familiar, right?
It's a normal-looking event handler.
>> Brian Holt: And the other thing is
if you have a single line of a function
with an arrow function,
the curly braces are optional.
So I could put that, and then it would
look like that, which is fine as well.
>> Brian Holt: So now, any time that
a change happens in this input,
it's gonna call setLocation with
whatever is inside of the input.
So now if I go back over here and
I start typing in here,
it's gonna start working again.
Now, why?
Well, I type, it kicks off a reRender,
search param reRenders.
And then I have these two things up here,
location and setLocation.
Location is going to be the current
state of location, okay?
And then set location is an updater for
that particular piece of state.
So every time that that event happens,
right, that I type into there,
E is going to represent an event
that happened in the input.
And then I'm gonna call setLocation
with whatever is inside
of that particular event,
or inside of that input,
which is going to update that
state that I'm getting here, okay?
So then,
when that re-render happens after that,
location is going to now be
whatever I've updated it to be.
Now it can be a little confusing that I
have this string here Seattle, Washington.
And obviously, that's not changing, but
just keep in mind that this is always
the default state, right, the first state.
And then after that, it'll be
whatever it is at that point in time.
But that's, you have to keep in mind
that that's what happens with these
render functions for these components
is they're run a bunch of times, right?
Every time that you update your
application, it reruns all of the renders.
So you want to make sure that
these functions are not doing
anything extraneous, right?
They shouldn't be updating any function.
They shouldn't have any like side
effects or anything like that.
You want to keep them pretty narrow to
the focus of rendering something, okay?
So this is a hook,
that's what the react terminology is here.
And one thing that you need to abide by
with hooks, all hooks begin with use.
Use state, use effect,
use callback, use memo,
all that stuff, all hooks begin with use.
Even the ones like custom hooks,
we're going to make a custom
hook [COUGH] excuse me.
We're going to make a custom
hook here in just a second.
But if you see use something,
it is a hook.
So this is how you have stateful
logic with React is with these hooks.
So now at any given time,
just to demonstrate to you,
I'll just say a console.log('state
of location', location).
>> Brian Holt: Or
even better, let's do this.
Let's just put an h1 right here.
>> Brian Holt: That has location in it.
>> Brian Holt: So now it says Seattle,
WA right there, right?
And if we start typing in there,
notice that it's changing alongside of,
because every time it re-renders, right,
it's outputting that location there.
So I could put Salt Lake City, Utah.
>> Speaker 2: Is using state different
than setting state in this context,
then, because it's setting a default,
out of the box here.
>> Brian Holt: Yes, so
useState is like creating a hook, right?
So and, when you get back a hook,
you get back an array of two things.
The first thing is always going
to be the current state of it.
The second thing is always going
to be an updater function for
that particular piece of statement, right?
So useState creates the hook.
This is called set location because
I chose to call it that, but
you could totally call
this updateLocation.
It's a function that gives you back
the updates that particular thing.
I choose to always call it set
because then I can kind of see it, but
that's just a convention that I have.
That's not an industry best practice or
anything like that.
Does that answer your question?
Cool.
I should call out here,
this might look a little weird to you.
This is also destructuring, right,
because I know this is gonna be an array.
This always gives back an array.
And I know that the first
item is always the state, and
I always know the second item
is the updater function.
So that's why that's an array.
Makes sense?
Cool.
>> Brian Holt: So historically,
if you've been writing React,
you would have had to use
something called set state, right?
This is kind of supplanting the need for
set state for these function components.
I will show you later how to do that
because it's important cuz it's still
very much a part of the React ecosystem.
But for now,
this is the way to do state with hooks.